
Title: Anticipating, Helping, and Competing with Humans: Text-based
Machine Learning Systems that Interact with Humans

Abstract: 

In this talk, I'll discuss three real-world language applications that
require "thinking on your feet": document classification, synchronous
machine translation (or "machine simultaneous interpretation"), and
question answering (when questions are revealed one piece at a time).
Effective algorithms for all of these tasks must combine insights from
both large quantities of data but must also understand what a human is
doing at a given moment.

Document classification is a long, laborious process that requires
annotators to understand large datasets, build a label set, and then
create traning examples for a classifier.  We show that an approach
that combines topic models with active learning can produce label sets
faster than traditional annotation frameworks by quickly giving
annotators and overview of the dataset and then identifying parts of a
dataset that the annotator should look at next to create the fastest
training set possible.

Synchronous machine translation is when a sentence is being produced
one word at a time in a foreign language and we want to produce a
translation in English simultaneously (i.e., with as little delay
between a foreign language word and its English translation). This is
particularly difficult in verb-final languages like German or
Japanese, where an English translation can barely begin until the verb
is seen.  We present a reinforcement learning solution that learns to
predict unseen parts of the sentence and incorporate these into fast,
accurate translations.

For question answering, we use a specially designed dataset that
challenges humans: a trivia game called quiz bowl. These questions are
written so that they can be interrupted by someone who knows more
about the answer; that is, harder clues are at the start of the
question and easier clues are at the end of the question. We create a
recursive neural network to predict answers from incomplete questions
and use reinforcement learning to decide when to guess.  We are able
to answer questions earlier in the questions than most college trivia
contestants.

This talk covers three papers presented at the Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing conference.
